okay how do we sketch velocity time and
acceleration time graphs when all we're
given at the beginning is a displacement
time graph such as one up here okay well
to do this what we need to always
remember is that the relation between
velocity acceleration and displacement
we know the velocity is equal to x over
T distance divided by time we also know
that it really that well that is x over
T if I had a small amount of X DX and a
small amount of T okay I could write
about that little D the deeds me small
difference in well that equals the
gradient of the xt graph okay so the
velocity is the gradient of the xt graph
well let's have a look at this xt graph
first thing you do is you spot some
points of interest well points of
interest are points where things happen
things change there's a point here with
something changes so this point here I
wanting to do is it's much easier always
if you draw these underneath each other
I draw a dotted line there so the time
scale is the same for all of them
something happens here as well something
interesting it changes the graph changes
could also put zero if you wanted to but
really we don't know it's not anything
changes it just appears at that moment
right so what do we know
well it's consider graded grade in here
what is it it's positive and it's
constant so the I've said the velocity
is the gradient well the gradient is
positive in constant velocity is
positive it's above zero and constant in
that period there then what happens here
the grade in here is zero well if the
gradient 0 velocity must be zero you'll
notice at the moment I'm not trying to
connect these lines up at all I'm just
drawing them on as they are so zero
there we go what's happening here well
first of all the gradient it's sloping
downwards so it's negative it starts off
very low and it gets higher so negative
and becoming increasingly negative okay
so it starts off very low and it gets
increasing negative so there we go
does that just going to join these up
now so they get that with that's the
velocity profile for this distance time
graph right how do I now convert this
velocity time profile so this velocity
time graph into acceleration time well I
know now that acceleration is actually
equal to velocity divided by time or if
I was right it little change in velocity
divided by little change in time looks
very very similar the one above us
because it's identical the only
difference is rather than til met next T
graph it's a gradient of the VT graph so
I'm looking at its gradient this well
gradient there is zero gradient here is
zero gradient here is negative and
constant okay so between arrow
Darren L should be zero between here and
here is zero and now it's negative and
constant about that so join out there if
you really if you really want to you
could say right what's this gradient
here well it's negative because it
slopes down it's incredibly high
actually negative infinity okay so if
you want to you could just write put
spike up there and down this one suppose
would go straight up the bottom of the
graph there should be an infinity non
eight okay so that's how you draw
velocity time and acceleration time
graphs from a displacement time graph
okay it's all about the gradient